MQTT: The Frontrunner for Your UNS Broker - Part 2 (#2724)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2025/01/mqtt-frontrunner-for-uns-part-2.md

--- 
title: "MQTT: The Frontrunner for Your UNS Broker - Part 2" 
subtitle: "Why MQTT is the Best Choice for Your UNS Broker"
description: "Learn why MQTT is the top choice for Unified Namespace (UNS) brokers and explore the ideal platform that simplifies the connection of devices and services while providing a reliable MQTT broker service."
date: 2025-01-08
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: /blog/2025/01/images/mqtt-for-uns.png
keywords: mqtt unified namespace, why use mqtt in uns, mqtt in a unified namespace, mqtt data modeling UNS, Best protocols for UNS IoT, Implementing UNS with MQTT, Unified Namespace protocols
tags: 
 - mqtt
 - uns
 - unified namespace
---

> In Part 1 , we discussed the compelling reasons behind MQTT's popularity as a choice for Unified Namespace (UNS) implementations, focusing on its lightweight design, low latency, and reliable message delivery. In this second part, we’ll explore additional factors that further establish MQTT as the leading protocol for UNS brokers, diving into its connectivity, scalability, structured topic management. 

Reviewer: let's link to part 1.

<!--more-->

> ## **Wide Connectivity**

Reviewer: @Yndira-E Sumit often uses bold in the headers like this. Is this something we should do with CSS instead?

Reviewer 2: I set up the CSS for headers when we rebranded the website, so there shouldn’t be a need to adjust it further. I guess Sumit feels the styling isn’t strong enough by default. I can increase the weight slightly but not make it bold, as we aim to avoid using weights heavier than semi-bold. [Here’s the handbook section](https://flowfuse.com/handbook/design/branding/#fonts) that outlines our approach to fonts.

Reviewer: @sumitshinde-84 ^

Can you create a new PR if we applied bold to titles earlier and remove it?

Reviewer 2: I’ve just checked, and the current styling is consistent with the headers across the website. To maintain this consistency, my recommendation would be to avoid adding any extra styling to the headers, as this is already handled by the CSS.

Author: I will create separate PR to remove all bold headers now

> For your Unified Namespace (UNS) to function properly, it needs to collect data from a variety of devices and systems. MQTT is perfect for this because it can connect to a wide range of devices, from modern systems to older legacy equipment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For your UNS to be valuable it needs to transport data from a variety of devices and systems. MQTT is perfect for this because it can connect to a wide range of devices, from modern systems to older legacy equipment.
```

> One of the biggest advantages of MQTT is its broad compatibility. It works seamlessly in cloud-based systems and is widely supported in industrial environments. This makes MQTT a natural fit for connecting all the components of your UNS, regardless of whether they are new or old.

Reviewer: I don't think this is true, old machines don't really support MQTT natively -- which is where Node-RED comes in. You also note this in the next line. As such, I think we should not have 1 line paragraphs like this and have more deep thought on what you want to say in this paragraph.

--- 
title: "MQTT: The Frontrunner for Your UNS Broker - Part 2" 
subtitle: "Why MQTT is the Best Choice for Your UNS Broker"
description: "Learn why MQTT is the top choice for Unified Namespace (UNS) brokers and explore the ideal platform that simplifies the connection of devices and services while providing a reliable MQTT broker service."
date: 2025-01-10
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: /blog/2025/01/images/mqtt-for-uns-2.png
keywords: mqtt unified namespace, why use mqtt in uns, mqtt in a unified namespace, mqtt data modeling UNS, Best protocols for UNS IoT, Implementing UNS with MQTT, Unified Namespace protocols
tags: 
 - mqtt
 - uns
 - unified-namespace
---

> In [Part 1](/blog/2025/01/mqtt-frontrunner-for-uns/), we discussed the compelling reasons behind MQTT's popularity as a choice for Unified Namespace (UNS) implementations, focusing on its lightweight design, low latency, and reliable message delivery. In this second part, we’ll explore additional factors that further establish MQTT as the leading protocol for UNS brokers, diving into its connectivity, scalability, structured topic management. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Part 1](/blog/2025/01/mqtt-frontrunner-for-uns/), we discussed the  reasons behind MQTT's popularity as a choice for Unified Namespace (UNS) implementations; focusing on its lightweight design, low latency, and reliable message delivery. In this second part, we’ll explore additional factors that further establish MQTT as the leading protocol for UNS brokers, diving into its connectivity, scalability, structured topic management. 
```

<!--more-->

## Wide Connectivity

For your UNS to be truly effective, it must be able to connect seamlessly with every part of your IIoT environment—whether it’s a device or the cloud. MQTT is an excellent protocol for this because it’s widely adopted in both cloud-based systems and industrial environments.

> In a factory, you typically have a mix of physical devices (like sensors and machines) and cloud systems. To make real-time decisions, data needs to flow seamlessly from the shop floor to the cloud. MQTT excels at connecting modern devices with the cloud. However, one challenge is that it doesn’t natively support older systems that typically use protocols like OPC UA or MODBUS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a typical industrial data architecture, you typically have a mix of physical devices (like sensors and machines) and cloud systems. To make real-time decisions, data needs to flow seamlessly from the shop floor to the cloud. MQTT excels at connecting modern devices with the cloud. However, one challenge is that it doesn’t natively support older systems that typically use protocols like OPC UA or MODBUS.
```
